It was a port scanner
login as sudo user, that is nmap -sS <IP ADD>
install nmap
we need to get an idea of the “landscape” we are attacking.
establish which services are running on the targets
When a computer runs a network service, 
it opens a networking construct called a “port” to receive the connection.
a HTTP Webservice can nearly always be found on port 80 of the server.
A HTTPS Webservice can be found on port 443. 
Windows NETBIOS can be found on port 139 and SMB can be found on port 445.
Key Port Classifications:
Well-Known Ports (0–1023): Reserved for system services and core protocols.
Registered Ports (1024–49151): Used by specific vendor applications.
Dynamic/Private Ports (49152–65535): Used for temporary, client-side
syn scan (synchronised scan)
asyn scan (asynchronised scan)
switch means the option that we use for scanning

port scanning has three basic scan types they are:
TCP Connect Scans (-sT)
SYN "Half-open" Scans (-sS)
UDP Scans (-sU)

##TCP connect scans:
tcp has three-way handshake, the terminal(attacker) sends a tcp request to target serverwith syn flag.
then server acknlowledges this packet with tcp response containing the syn flag and the ack flag
then attacker sends a tcp request with ack flag.

so what happens is nmap tries to connect with each server 
and determines of the server is open by the response it gets
if port is closed the response is reset flag.
if port open the response is syn and ack flag.

how does firewall work?
It just drops the incoming packets, nmap doesnt recieve anything back, 
this means it is open ut filtered
also we can make the firewall respond back with reset (rst) packet thus 
potraying it to be closed

RFC request for comments:
The Rule: 
RFC 793 (the TCP standard) says that if you send a packet to a closed port,
the receiver must send back a RST (Reset) packet.

The Trick: 
Nmap sends a "weird" packet (like a FIN scan). 
A standard Linux box might follow the RFC and stay silent,
while an old Windows box might send a Reset.

The Result: 
By comparing the reaction to the "Rulebook," 
Nmap can guess exactly what OS you are running.

RFC 793: TCP: (newest RFC is RFC 9293)
Used for port scanning (-sS, -sT) and OS detection.

RFC 792: ICMP:
Used for "Ping" scans to see if a host is alive.

RFC 1122:Host Requirements:
Defines how a computer should handle bad data packets.

## SYN Scans
###IDS: INTRUSION DETECTION SYSTEM

####TWO TYPES OF METHOD:
1. Signature-based: specific patterns, byte sequence, malicious code string that known
2. It analyses previous data to know what normal looks like, and raises an anomaly if this is changed

####Two TYPES OF IDS BASED ON THE POSITION:
NIDS network IDS specific points in the network
HIDS host-based IDS specific device

So IDS is used only after the three-way handshake is over but in syn scan we stop,
the three-way handshake by sending rst from the client side after the target sends the ack form its side.
thats why we call it stealth or half-open connection, thus these are faster.
syn scans used to scan TCP port range of a target.
tcp scan is where we do a three-way handshake with the target. A SYN scan sends a RST tcp packet 
after recieving syn/ack from the target.

cons: it needs root access
unstable services are sometimes brought down by SYN scan.
 SYN scans can also be made to work by giving Nmap the CAP_NET_RAW,
CAP_NET_ADMIN and CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE capabilities; 
however, this may not allow many of the NSE scripts to run properly.


##MITM:
The structure of the TCP packet:
It has header and payload
the header is 20 bytes:
1. source port
2. Seqence number 
3. Acknowledgement number
4. data offset syn ack fin rst
5. checksum calculated value to make sure data wasnt changed in between
6. options
6. data 
